Add a Contributing guide (#15)
laminas/documentation: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

The documentation for each repository is available in the "**docs/**" directory of that repository.
It is written in [Markdown format] and built using [MkDocs].

## Testing Your Changes Locally

We **strongly** encourage you to test your changes locally before contributing them.
To do so, you first need to do three things; these are:

1. Have MkDocs installed.
2. Have the Laminas documentation theme available to the laminas-form directory.
3. Update `mkdocs.yml` to build the docs using the documentation theme.

To complete these steps, please follow the instructions below.

1. [Install MkDocs].
2. Clone the [documentation-theme repository] locally.
    ```
    git clone git@github.com:laminas/documentation-theme.git documentation-theme
    ```
3. Copy the theme directory from the cloned documentation-theme repository to the root directory of this project.

> 4. Replace lines 91 and 92 of `mkdocs.yml` with the following Yaml snippet, changing them to suit the repository that you are working with.

Reviewer: Not sure if mentioning line number is a good idea. They change over time and most likely without updating this document. 
Maybe we can add a "comment section" in that file which we can refer too.

Reviewer 2: > They change over time and most likely without updating this document.

It is different for each repository. Examples:

* https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc/blob/e3c420a96349f57655ed28b135290e331edb579c/mkdocs.yml#L26-L27
* https://github.com/laminas/laminas-session/blob/6486dbcebfc80e2c128f2da522b19a68d24b5cfa/mkdocs.yml#L15-L16
* https://github.com/laminas/laminas-session/blob/6486dbcebfc80e2c128f2da522b19a68d24b5cfa/mkdocs.yml#L15-L16
* https://github.com/laminas/laminas-view/blob/2e961a1f698593f8db6a71c193e3312783b46b68/mkdocs.yml#L42-L43

And changed after a new page is added to the documentation. Example: https://github.com/laminas/laminas-session/pull/29

Author: Thanks for spotting that. I'll get that section updated.

Author: I updated the documentation to make it more generic, and applicable to any of the repos.

    ```yaml
    # The following example assumes that you are working with laminas-form
    repo_url: 'https://github.com/laminas/laminas-form'
    extra:
        repo_name: laminas/laminas-form
        project: Components
        base_url: https://docs.laminas.dev/
        project_url: https://docs.laminas.dev/components/
    theme:
        name: null
        custom_dir: 'theme/'
        static_templates:
          - pages/404.html
    markdown_extensions:

>         - pymdownx.superfences:

Reviewer 3: I followed the instructions outlined in this document to set up a new environment and ran into the following issue.

```
INFO    -  Building documentation...
ERROR   -  Config value: 'markdown_extensions'. Error: Failed loading extension "pymdownx.superfences".

Aborted with 1 Configuration Errors!
```

After installing [PyMdown Extensions](https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/installation/) it worked. Is that requirement mentioned anywhere?

Reviewer 2: @arueckauer
No, not at the moment but the guide should solve the problem.

One more extension is needed from the PyMdown Extensions: "[Tabbed](https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/extensions/tabbed/)"

The extension are used and needed because the underlying Markdown parser from MkDocs is limited. We use this for

* code sample in lists: https://docs.mezzio.dev/mezzio/v3/features/router/uri-generation/#naming-routes
* code sample in blockquotes: https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/helpers/head-style/
* and tabs: https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-i18n/validators/post-code/#using-locale

@settermjd
The note from @arueckauer is an important info which must be added as separate section to the guide.

The update script from the documentation build process can be used as reference:

https://github.com/laminas/documentation-theme/blob/b95cee32ad5b035a6dc7af8b3f57a387e8644900/update_mkdocs_yml.py#L19-L32

        - pymdownx.tabbed:
        - toc:
            toc_depth: 2
    ```

> When you have completed each of these steps then, from the root directory of the project, run `mkdocs serve &`.

Reviewer 3: Is the ampersand needed? On Windows this causes an error. It compiles however with `mkdocs serve`.

Reviewer 2: No.

Good catch! 👍

# Contributing

The documentation for each repository is available in the "**docs/**" directory of that repository.
It is written in [Markdown format] and built using [MkDocs].

## Testing Your Changes Locally

We **strongly** encourage you to test your changes locally before contributing them.
To do so, you first need to do three things; these are:

1. Have MkDocs installed.
2. Have the Laminas documentation theme available to the laminas-form directory.
3. Update `mkdocs.yml` to build the docs using the documentation theme.

To complete these steps, please follow the instructions below.

1. [Install MkDocs].
2. Install [the PyMdown Extensions].
3. Clone the [documentation-theme repository] locally.
    ```
    git clone git@github.com:laminas/documentation-theme.git documentation-theme
    ```

> 4. Copy the theme directory from the cloned documentation-theme repository to the root directory of this project.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to use a Symlink instead of copy the theme directory and exclude it via Git.

Author: What about Windows, which doesn't support symlinks?

Author: I stand corrected. I just found out that versions Windows 7, 8, & 10 (I love counting in Microsoft) do support symlinks.

5. Add the following Yaml snippet to `mkdocs.yml`, changing it to suit the repository that you are working with.
    ```yaml
    # The following example assumes that you are working with laminas-form
    repo_url: 'https://github.com/<your-project>'
    extra:
        repo_name: <your-project>

>         project: Components

Reviewer 2: A notice should be added that "Mezzio" and "MVC" is also an option, related to component itself. Maybe after the code example.

Author: Thanks for the feedback.

Author: What about Windows, which doesn't support symlinks?

Author: I stand corrected. I just found out that versions Windows 7, 8, & 10 (I love counting in Microsoft) do support symlinks.

Author: I added in a Yaml comment above the project line, because that way the comment would be much closer to the relevant line, rather than below the code block.

You should see initial output similar to the following if the process is successful.

```console
INFO    -  Building documentation...
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
INFO    -  Documentation built in 2.47 seconds
[I 200430 22:06:08 server:296] Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8000
INFO    -  Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8000
[I 200430 22:06:08 handlers:62] Start watching changes
INFO    -  Start watching changes
[I 200430 22:06:08 handlers:64] Start detecting changes
INFO    -  Start detecting changes
```

When you view the documentation, it should be properly themed, similar to the following screenshot.

![Example of locally generated Laminas documentation](/images/example-of-generated-documentation.png)

## Need Help?

If you have trouble with any of these steps, come and ask for help in [the Laminas Slack #documentation channel].

[documentation-theme repository]: https://github.com/laminas/documentation-theme
[Install MkDocs]: https://www.mkdocs.org/#installation
[MkDocs]: https://www.mkdocs.org/
[Markdown format]: https://www.markdownguide.org/
[the Laminas Slack #documentation channel]: https://laminas.slack.com

> [the PyMdown Extensions]: https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/installation/

Reviewer 2: At the moment we have no guideline to add links to a Markdown document. So far we add links directly in text to reduce duplications of content.

Author: This is a carryover from how I write AsciiDoc content. I found that writing links this way provided two benefits: 1. they're reusable, 2. the content itself is easier to read. If you'd prefer me to inline them, I'm happy to do so, but those are the reasons why I wrote them this way.

# Contributing

The documentation for each repository is available in the "**docs/**" directory of that repository.
It is written in [Markdown format] and built using [MkDocs].

## Testing Your Changes Locally

We **strongly** encourage you to test your changes locally before contributing them.
To do so, you first need to do three things; these are:

1. Have MkDocs installed.

> 2. Have the Laminas documentation theme available to the laminas-form directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Have the Laminas documentation theme available to the current repository directory.
```
